README.md, before:

# confluence-reader

You can't open Confluence pages using
[EWW](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/eww.html) because it requires Javascript.
And sure, Confluence gives you the ability to create super-duper dynamic pages. But, and thank
heavens and all deities for that, most of the times the pages people create are just text and images.  

This package lets you read the "export" view of pages in an Emacs buffer, rendering them via `shr`
(the same built-in library used by EWW), with some minor additions like bookmark support and a few
commands for easier navigation.  

## Configuration 

    (use-package confluence-reader :load-path "/path/to/this/repo"
      :custom
      (confluence-host "thecompany.atlassian.net")
      (confluence-buffer-name-style 'page-title)
      :commands
      (confluence-search confluence-page-by-id confluence-page-from-url))
      
You need to create a token in JIRA and add it to any `auth-source` enabled location, for example in
your `.authinfo` or `.authinfo.gpg` file:

    machine thecompany.atlassian.net login youruser@thecompany.com password your-token-here
    
### Customization options

* `confluence-host`: The host of the Confluence server. Usually has the form
  \"orgname.atlassian.net\". This name is also used to lookup credentials using `authsource'."

* `confluence-browser-url`: URL template to open a page in an external browser. You probably won't
  need to change this.

* `confluence-buffer-name-style`: The page buffers are named `*Confluence: ?*` where ? is affected
  by this setting. The default `page-id` makes buffer names shorters. With `page-title`, they are
  easier to find but can be very long.
  
### Usage

This package has three entry points:

* `confluence-search`: enter some text, get results, hit `RET` on any of them to display the page.
  By default it uses standard "text contains" search, invoke with prefix arg to type your own
  [CQL](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/advanced-searching-using-cql/) with
  advanced operators.

* `confluence-page-by-id`: if you have a page id (you can see them in the URL when on the browser)
  you can use this to jump directly to that page. It isn't very practical :) but it is used
  internally by the other commands.

* `confluence-page-from-url`: just paste the URL from your browser in the minibuffer and this will
  get the page id from it (using the very scientific method of splitting by "/" chars)

Page view uses `confluence-page-mode`, where you can see the page exported in glorious plain
HTML. Some of the main bindings in this mode are:  

* `q`, the usual "quit window" command
* `RET` over a link to open it. More about this below.
* `b` calls `bookmark-set`, to save the current page in the standard Emacs bookmarking facility.
* `TAB` to jump through the page's links (add shift to go backwards)
* `o` to open the page using `browse-url-secondary-browser-function` (in my case, Firefox)

When rendering a page, this package tries to identify links to other Confluence pages to handle
those internally. The internal links have a "➡️" character, while the ones handled by the usual
`browse-url` machinery have "🔗" next to them.  
Table of content/anchor links aren't supported, so they get disabled (but still have an underline). 
You can also access all page headings using `imenu`.

Commit message:

Mention search in the intro text

README.md, after:

# confluence-reader

You can't open Confluence pages using
[EWW](https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_mono/eww.html) because it requires Javascript.
And sure, Confluence gives you the ability to create super-duper dynamic pages. But, and thank
heavens and all deities for that, most of the times the pages people create are just text and images.  

This package lets you read the "export" view of pages in an Emacs buffer, rendering them via `shr`
(the same built-in library used by EWW), with some minor additions like bookmark support and a few
commands for easier navigation.  
You can also run a search directly from Emacs, getting a table with the pages that match. There's
no context, unlike Confluence's search results, only titles. 

## Configuration 

    (use-package confluence-reader :load-path "/path/to/this/repo"
      :custom
      (confluence-host "thecompany.atlassian.net")
      (confluence-buffer-name-style 'page-title)
      :commands
      (confluence-search confluence-page-by-id confluence-page-from-url))
      
You need to create a token in JIRA and add it to any `auth-source` enabled location, for example in
your `.authinfo` or `.authinfo.gpg` file:

    machine thecompany.atlassian.net login youruser@thecompany.com password your-token-here
    
### Customization options

* `confluence-host`: The host of the Confluence server. Usually has the form
  \"orgname.atlassian.net\". This name is also used to lookup credentials using `authsource'."

* `confluence-browser-url`: URL template to open a page in an external browser. You probably won't
  need to change this.

* `confluence-buffer-name-style`: The page buffers are named `*Confluence: ?*` where ? is affected
  by this setting. The default `page-id` makes buffer names shorter. With `page-title`, they are
  easier to identify, but they can be very long.
  
### Usage

This package has three entry points:

* `confluence-search`: enter some text, get results, hit `RET` on any of them to display the page.
  By default it uses standard "text contains" search, invoke with prefix arg to type your own
  [CQL](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/advanced-searching-using-cql/) with
  advanced operators.

* `confluence-page-by-id`: if you have a page id (you can see them in the URL when on the browser)
  you can use this to jump directly to that page. It isn't very practical :) but it is used
  internally by the other commands.

* `confluence-page-from-url`: just paste the URL from your browser in the minibuffer and this will
  get the page id from it (using the very scientific method of splitting by "/" chars)

Page view uses `confluence-page-mode`, where you can see the page exported in glorious plain
HTML. Some of the main bindings in this mode are:  

* `q`, the usual "quit window" command
* `RET` over a link to open it. More about this below.
* `b` calls `bookmark-set`, to save the current page in the standard Emacs bookmarking facility.
* `TAB` to jump through the page's links (add shift to go backwards)
* `o` to open the page using `browse-url-secondary-browser-function` (in my case, Firefox)

When rendering a page, this package tries to identify links to other Confluence pages to handle
those internally. The internal links have a "➡️" character, while the ones handled by the usual
`browse-url` machinery have "🔗" next to them.  
Table of content/anchor links aren't supported, so they get disabled (but still have an underline). 
You can also access all page headings using `imenu`.
